---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/1/
type: stop
section_title:
title: Antony and Cleopatra, and Amanirenas of Kush
page_rank: 1
stop_id:
audio_file: English R05.01.AV_AR CLEOPATRA 2V v02-4K (mp3cut.net).mp3
hero_images:
 - path: Cleopatra.jpg
   alt_text: Image of Cleopatra
 - path: Cleopatra 2.jpg
   alt_text: Another image of Cleopatra
---

Images courtesy of General Collection - Doha, Lusail Museum Collection - Doha and Her Highness Sheikha Moza bint Nasser Photo Library, © AR AL – Baker

## Cleopatra

> Welcome to the first meeting point, where we explore people, places or moments of coming together, and the ripples of ideas that they generate. Here we look at the legacy of histories and stories: what stories do we remember, and which histories are forgotten?

The tragic love story of Antony and Cleopatra played out only a few years before Amanirenas, Queen of the Kingdom of Kush (in present-day Sudan and southern Egypt), victoriously led her armies against Rome. 

One story has been celebrated and reinterpreted endlessly in the West - from Shakespeare to Hollywood - while one has been overlooked. 

This prejudice is embodied in differing Western conceptions of Egypt and Nubia, and Mediterranean versus African civilisations. Qatar is supporting excavations in Sudan, shedding light on these overlooked histories, and reasserting the importance of Kush and other African civilisations in the archaeological record.

In this gallery, you will find a stunning painting by 19th-century artist Lawrence Alma-Tadema, depicting Queen Cleopatra of Egypt with Roman general and politician, Mark Antony.

Have a look at the digital tablets and discover more about the enduring legacies of Egypt and Cleopatra through art and popular culture.

And the Kingdom of Kush and other African civilisations, alongside Qatar’s involvement through the Qatar-Sudan Archaeological Project.
